BastilleJail_w_DotNet_MVC.md, before:

## Get DOTNET .8 ASP.NET MVC working in a Bastille jail

1. pkg  install bastille  
2. sysrc bastille_enable="YES"  
3. nano /usr/local/etc/bastille/bastille.conf  
bastille_zfs_enable="YES"                                                 
bastille_zfs_zpool="zroot"                                                  
4. bastille bootstrap 14.1-RELEASE  
5. bastille create <jail_name> 14.1-RELEASE <ip_addr> <interface_name>
I.e. bastille create mvcjail 14.1-RELEASE 192.168.1.45 em0  
6. bastille stop <jail_name>  
7. nano /usr/local/bastille/jails/<jail_name>/jail.conf  
allow.mlock = 1 ;  
8. bastille start <jail_name>  
9. bastille console <jail_name>  
10. pkg install nginx dotnet nano  (in the jail)   
11. sysrc nginx_enable="YES"  
12. dotnet –version  (in the jail and should return something like 8.0.106)   
13. dotnet new mvc -o /srv/testapp (in the jail)   
14. cd /srv/testapp   (in the jail)   
15. dotnet build   (in the jail)   
16. nano /usr/local/etc/nginx/nginx.conf  (in the jail)   
Modify the first server block to look like:  
server {  
    listen 80;  
    server_name <ip_address>;  

    location / {  
        proxy_pass         http://localhost:5000;  
        proxy_http_version 1.1;  
        proxy_set_header   Upgrade $http_upgrade;  
        proxy_set_header   Connection keep-alive;  
        proxy_set_header   Host $host;  
        proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;  
        proxy_set_header   X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;  
        proxy_set_header   X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;  
    }  
}  
17. service nginx restart (in the jail)   
18. nano /srv/<jail_name>/Properties/launchSettings.json  
    "http": {  
      "commandName": "Project",  
      "dotnetRunMessages": true,  
      "launchBrowser": true,  
      "applicationUrl": "http://localhost:5000",  
      "environmentVariables": {  
        "ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT": "Development"  
      }  
    },  
Note: the only line that is changed is "applicationUrl": "http://localhost:5000",  
19. (your current dir should still be /srv/testapp in the jail)  
dotnet run  
(this will output a few messages of type warn and info and then will appear to hang. It isn’t hanging, it is running)  
20. Back on the host OS (not in the jail), open a web browser and go to a URL of your jail’s IP address.  You should see:   
Welcome  
  
Learn about building Web apps with ASP.NET Core.

Commit message:

Updated BastilleJail_w_DotNet notes to include physical RAM lock and total limits

BastilleJail_w_DotNet_MVC.md, after:

## Get DOTNET .8 ASP.NET MVC working in a Bastille jail

1. pkg  install bastille  
2. sysrc bastille_enable="YES"  
3. nano /usr/local/etc/bastille/bastille.conf  
bastille_zfs_enable="YES"                                                 
bastille_zfs_zpool="zroot"                                                  
4. bastille bootstrap 14.1-RELEASE  
5. bastille create <jail_name> 14.1-RELEASE <ip_addr> <interface_name>
I.e. bastille create mvcjail 14.1-RELEASE 192.168.1.45 em0  
6. bastille stop <jail_name>  
7. nano /usr/local/bastille/jails/<jail_name>/jail.conf  
allow.mlock = 1 ;
rctl {  
    jail:<jail_name>:memorylocked=2G;  # Limit locked memory to 2GB  
    jail:<jail_name>:memoryuse=4G;     # Example: Total memory usage capped at 4GB (optional)  
    }  
(in a production environment, you'll want to tune the rctl for each jail so that you have enough physical RAM avail for a physical lock that your application is happy but not so much that if all your jails decided to act poorly they could bork your system.  Note that safe DotNet code , i.e. not using P/Invoke should, in theory, fail gracefully if it attempts to lock more physical RAM than it set by rctl.)  

9. bastille start <jail_name>  
10. bastille console <jail_name>  
11. pkg install nginx dotnet nano  (in the jail)   
12. sysrc nginx_enable="YES"  
13. dotnet –version  (in the jail and should return something like 8.0.106)   
14. dotnet new mvc -o /srv/testapp (in the jail)   
15. cd /srv/testapp   (in the jail)   
16. dotnet build   (in the jail)   
17. nano /usr/local/etc/nginx/nginx.conf  (in the jail)   
Modify the first server block to look like:  
server {  
    listen 80;  
    server_name <ip_address>;  

    location / {  
        proxy_pass         http://localhost:5000;  
        proxy_http_version 1.1;  
        proxy_set_header   Upgrade $http_upgrade;  
        proxy_set_header   Connection keep-alive;  
        proxy_set_header   Host $host;  
        proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;  
        proxy_set_header   X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;  
        proxy_set_header   X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;  
    }  
}  
18. service nginx restart (in the jail)   
19. nano /srv/<jail_name>/Properties/launchSettings.json  
    "http": {  
      "commandName": "Project",  
      "dotnetRunMessages": true,  
      "launchBrowser": true,  
      "applicationUrl": "http://localhost:5000",  
      "environmentVariables": {  
        "ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT": "Development"  
      }  
    },  
Note: the only line that is changed is "applicationUrl": "http://localhost:5000",  
20. (your current dir should still be /srv/testapp in the jail)  
dotnet run  
(this will output a few messages of type warn and info and then will appear to hang. It isn’t hanging, it is running)  
21. Back on the host OS (not in the jail), open a web browser and go to a URL of your jail’s IP address.  You should see:   
Welcome  
  
Learn about building Web apps with ASP.NET Core.
